- 👋 Hi, I’m @patrcoff
- 👀 I’m interested in open source software, IT tools, exploring development as a potential career pivot from IT Support
- 🌱 I’m currently learning python, sql, software development practices, linux administration.
- 💞️ I’m looking to collaborate on: my first collaboration... While I have dabbled with Python for many years, I have only recently felt that I have gathered a sort of 'memonetum' in my learning. I hope to develop my experience with the language and surrounding skills more rapidly this year than any before. A key part of this would be to begin to work collaboratively on some projects. I would be keen to explore this further in 2023 and if anyone would like me to get involved with their project, or wants to get involved in one of mine (see below for details about my projects), then I'd be very happy to hear from you!
- 📫 How to reach me - for now, the best way would be to reach out on LinkedIn, if you don't already have another contact method for me. https://www.linkedin.com/in/patrick-coffey-b7a748b0


<h1>Projects</h1>

In 2023, my goal is to feature one project a month. These will be chosen mainly based on frameworks, technologies, paradigms or other general software development practices I want to learn. I should mention, I am not a software developer and am not in a software development role - while I may explore this as a career down the line, the main motivating factore for me at this time is from the enjoyment I get from using the Python language, as well as a desire for a creative (but still technical) outlet. In my day job I work in technical support, supporting enterprice customers of a popular patch management solution - Ivanti Security Controls. While an engaging and diverse role, it doesn't fulfill my creativity desires in exactly the way I would like - very few jobs do of course!

The projects I produce during this period of (ideally) rapid development of my skills and knowledge will be started in a specific month, with much of the bulk of the MVP being developed in said specific month. The goal is not however to start and complete each project within a one-month period, but rather to loosely assign an ongoing, living, breathing project based product, to one specific month where it was started and the bulk of the initial work performed. I will however likely start many more projects than these 12, and many I'm sure I will never complete. However the 12 projects assigned to specific months will not be abandoned, and must be brought up to a certain level of standard which I will be happy with displaying, at least for this stage in my development journey. As such, I will name each project as each month comes and goes so it is clear which project is associated with which month, and which are extraneous projects.

- January: Ideasaver3000 - a notes app datastructure and API. The main ideal here is that knowledge is interlinked, hard to categorise, comes in many shapes and sizes and I find traditional applications of knowledge storage, processing and visualisation don't fit well with my own brain. In this project, all notes, ideas, individual pieces of information are instances of the same class, with various metadata attributes which lend them to being interlinked and accessed from multiple front end applications with a wide variety of purposes, from simple note taking inputs, to project planning graphical interfaces, to daily reminder tools which analyse previous ideas, thoughts and personal goals and prompt actions based on them. This stems from my terrible habit of leaving unstructured notes in a vast array of locations, with the intention at the time being that I will later review the information, develop it, use it for inspiration of further ideas etc. Inevitably, the vast majority of my thoughts are lost to files, applications, messages, scraps of paper etc. I aim to resolve this by creating a central repository of my thoughts, which can handle the varying categories, types, shapes and sizzes of said thoughts and put them to good use now, tomorrow, in a month, a year etc. Essentially capturing the essance of my mind as a source for the development of future information. Maybe I won't like what I see but at least I will have a hopefully decent demonstration of a Flask app.

- February: heating-system..? So, here's where life introduced itself to my plans. As you may notice, January's project remains unfinished. What you didn't know, until now, as I'm telling you, is so is February's project. The original project for February was to be a Pet management system, a sort of planning tool for purchasing and administering pet medecations such as flea, tick and wormer treatments. It was started in ernest but not yet uploaded to github. It is in the first two months of the year when I realised just how busy being a new father can be! (Let me hear you all say 'duh') With work ramping up again and very little free time being available to me outside of work due to fatherhood, I am revisiting my NYR and  shall outline the mofications to is  below, I feel adaptability is very important and I am not counting this as a failure by any means. First though, a note opn what I did end up spending most of my coding time doing in Feb - my home heating system. I have an oil based central heating system, with a simple, 1-loop circut heating both radiators and the hot water tank. The system is either on or off. For a long time, this has been controlled by a raspberry pi with a temperature sensor attached, controlling a single relay which turns the burner off and on. The main issue with this is that the logic for the thermostatic and scheduled based heating periods was hardcoded in a pythojn script. In order to provide my wife with the ability to adjust the settings, without having to go through me, I decided to finally put a more robust frontend and controller setup to the system. This consists of a FastAPI backend, which also serves a React frontend (first time  playing with React, thought it would be a good oportunity to have an initial exploration of the framework). The script running on the Pi which actually controls the burner was then modified to make REST API calls to the backend to obtain settings and log heating data. This ended up taking the focus away from the Pet app due to its greater necessity to my life. I'm pretty proud of the project overall, though I haven't yet written any substantial documentation for it, it is only every intended to be used by me due to the specific nature of the physical set up I have for my very simple heating system. None-the-less, documentation is an area on which I hope to target for improvement in terms of my soft skills in the short term future.

And that brings me to the main take-away from February, the adjustment of my NYR goals. Rather than seeking to arbitrarily create 12 projects throughout the year, I am revising the figure down to a target of 6, with the view to focusing more heavily on the quality of the projects. I shall list them in this README for the duration of this year, along with any future such adjustments of my goals. It occured to me the arbtrary figure of 1 project a month, while sounding good, was not necessarily attainable with my amound of available free time, and further, is completely unnecessary with relation to the reasoning behind my goals. Ultimately, my goals can boil to me wanting to become better at programming in general. I would like to be more professional, learn the wider tools and ecosystems used by developers, and all for the purpose of being better at it, and not specifically for finding a job as a developer in the immediate future. I am considering my long-term career plans, but I am by no means in any rush to change careers, and as such, I don't need a vast array of projects in my portfolio, my energies would be better spent working on projects in such ways as I actually improve as a developer.

The purpose of this README has now changed in line with the above shift in (or redefining of) my goals. It will provide the purpose effectively of a devlog/diary. I shall not remove previous sections, so my intentions, learning and other aspects of my journey are plain to see as they naturally evolve throughout the year. I will aim to log my thoughts and progress here more frequently, but possibly in smaller chunks. I will still highlight the projects I do work on here, and aim to focus specifically on the best ones throughout the year, but the purpose of the readme in general is not solely focused on an arbitrary number of projects any more.

From this point onwards, references to dates are simply to provide the reader with a handle as to what part of the journey they are currently reading, and not which project is the focus of that section. That should do it for February.

- March: It's the first day of the month and I've just written the bulk of February, here continues the new purpose of this document.

I'd like to outline the current status of my github repositories in high level and brief fashion:

heating-system - arguably the most complete of my public projects, this remains solely a personal project for my individual heating system setup, with no aim to share it for other people to slot into their setups - doing so would require a lot of bespoke work. I do aim to eventually get round to writing a 'write-up' of the project as a whole, including the hardware steps too, but that would likely be more of an instructables type article rather than an open source software project. I'll link to it if/when I do write it.

clippy2000 - started before the NYR, this is what I spent the bulk of my (available) time working on in December of last year. The idea behind it is to have a simple system tray tool which the end user can use to run sequences of text manipulation processes on the contents of the clipboard. The user will be able to edit their own sequences (or Task Queues) within the editor view using a list of available functions which are made available to them. While working on this, the backend logic seemed to make sense for generalisation and I sought to break it out into its own module (TaskQueue). This work is in progress (I've not looked at it much this year as I focused myself too heavily on meeting the arbitrary 1 project a month plan which has since been binned) and is not currently in a fully working state at the tip of the main branch as it waits for the TaskQueue module to be finished in alpha, as there will be some refinement of how the module is used which will require some rewriting of the clippy2000 app itself. The UI is written in QT. I plan to come back to this hopefully soon to get a working prototype.

TaskQueue - that leads on to the TaskQueue module itself. It's purpose is to provide the developer with a mechanism to allow end users to edit and create sequences of functions which can be performed on some data or simply in their sequence, depending on the context. (Think a sequence of text processes on text content vs a sequence of PyAutoGui commands (a future implementation idea I have)) The module is inherited from early prototyping of clippy2000 but needs some further refinement to make it more usable in a general way by other projects. Basic usage at time of writing is as follows:
you instantiate a TaskQueue class object, optionally passing in a list of imported modules of functions which are to be made available to the end user as Tasks available for TaskQueues. There will be a set of built-in functions which will be generally useful for a range of purposes such as common text processing actions like stripping whitespace, replacing substrings, reformatting etc. The developer then extends the available functions if they require. The developer will then present the available actions to the end user via some interface which they decide upon, and the instances methods for parsing and executing task queues is used to run said TaskQueues. Again this is ongoing and heavily intertwined with the clippy2000 project, much of the work to do is defining the separation between the two projects so that this module can stand on its own robustly for use with other projects outside of the context of clippy2000

ideasaver3000 - loosely following a real python guide on building an api with swagger, marshmallow, sqlalchemy and Flask, this is currently in a pre alpha stage - the basic data structure is written and some api endpoints exist however, since starting this project, I have used FastAPI which is significantly more suitable, massively increasing DRY principles and reducing boilerplate code. I will likely reapproach this with FastAPI and decide on some front ends separately in other projects. January was a busy month outside of programming (this was the 'January project' back when that was a thing)

PetPlannerPro - similarly, this project will likely end up being reapproached with FastAPI. It was initially started as a Django project, however, the scale and content of the project just doesn't feel like it requires the django framework. The basic idea is an application which allows the user to plan and schedule the purchasing and administering of pet medications such as flea treaments. I may also add food purchasing and some other general budgeting features, such as tracking how much you've spent on pet toys and other pet supplies in general. I feel it makes sense to build this as a back end via FastAPI and use the front end as separate projects - I currently plan to build a web front end (likely in react) and long-term an android app frontend too, using the same api backend. Therefore, the backend should be thoroughly thought out and well defined before the UI elements are created. This was originally going to be the feb project (when that was a thing) but the heating system project took over my time as outlined above and hence prompting the entire rethinking of the NYR goals as a whole. This project I do feel positive about long-term though, I feel it has legs as a potentially useful app which real people could use (originally planned because it would help my wife, who is the organised one in the relationship, and we have 6 pets!), so I plan not to rush this project and learn how to deploy it professionally so I can ultimately release it to the public as an application to be used IRL. This will likely start for free provided usage is low in order to keep VPS costs low, but if it becomes popular I'd likely seek partnerships with boutique pet supply firms and promote their products through the app in order to lightly monetise it and turn it into a side business. My wife and I could run it then as we do love animals, it could be a passion business. But I'm not building it with the explicit aim of generating income.

isecapipy - how do you say that? This is a project to wrap the Ivanti Security Controls REST API in python, for automating patch workflows via custom Python tools. I work as a TSE in support of the Security Controls product and have good knowledge about how it works, how customers often use it, both how they want to use, and how it should be used. I am to bridge some gaps some customers have and provide added value to the functionality of the API, whilst encouraging best practice in terms of the use of ISEC and patching. I hope to collaborate with an ex collegaue who now uses the product in his current role. Not  much progress has been made so far but I think it could be an intresting project, though pretty niche.

That's all of the public projects which currently exist on my GitHub, mostly in early stages of development and with very little documentation (something I aim to fix when I get a chance). But these are early days, prior to 2023, I was not taking programming seriously beyond some small scripts to assist my own personal workflow. I feel happy with what I've learnt in jus the last few months and am excited to see where it goes through the rest of the year!


Aims of the year, as they sit at present:

- Be able to understand why / when to use a framework such as Django over say FastAPI (if using for backend) - what does each do better etc. In order words, have a solid and complete grasp on the currnet state of web development in Python.
- Improve front end capabilites (currently not very good at styling because CSS is so boring, I've only recently looked at JS again for the first time in a long time)
- Be able to make a simple android app. I haven't decided what to learn for this but the main contendors at present are Kivy and Kotlin.
- Improve dev practices, with Python (as my main language) including areas such as debugging, exception handling, testing, documentation, improve understanding of concepts such as inheritence, async, generators, decorators (writing my own) etc
- start practicing better workflows for starting, continueing and 'finishing' projects, setting them up for continual maintenance and making my life (future me) easier. 
- adhere to the 7 steps of app creation from Florian Rakete (a programming mentor who's fb group I have joined) - write a description of the app (whitepage), define the data the app will store, process, input and output and where that data comes from, logically group said data (don't skip this step), begin coding - write data classes, write test data for those data classes, write functionality and test on the test data, UI - only at the end! This model is not something I have previously been adhering to, I will make some effort to retrofit some of my existing projects with it but that is obviously challenging to some extent without a time machine. However, going forward, new projects should adhere to this framework.

April - currently in the future, just writing here as a placeholder to show the end of the March segment.



<!---
patrcoff/patrcoff is a ✨ special ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.
You can click the Preview link to take a look at your changes.
--->
